---
title: "Digital RMB: Revolutionary Technology or Not?"
date: 2021-12-17
draft: false
author: ["Lawrence Lim"]
categories: ["research"]
tags: ["CBDC"]
ShowToc: true
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
---

After the pilot of e-CNY was rolled out in 10 cities across China in August of 2021, news outlets all over the world swarmed to cover the new burgeoning technology[8]. After the initial buzz of the pilot died down, one question many people in China and the international media had on their minds was whether e-CNY was truly going to be the disruptive revolutionary technology that the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) wants it to be.

In my opinion, the PBOC and the Chinese government need to find a very good way to justify the creation of this currency. In the e-CNY whitepaper, they claim that the “robust development of network technology and digital economy call for retail payment services that are more convenient, safe and inclusive and privacy friendly”[1], and that their answer to that demand is to create a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) in the form of e-CNY. However, after comparing the use of e-CNY with payment platforms like WeChat Pay and Alipay, in addition to cash and cryptocurrencies, I found that in its present state, e-CNY does not create a retail payment system that is any safer, convenient or privacy friendly than the other technologies that are currently available.

To start, when comparing the convenience of using e-CNY with WeChat and Alipay, the differences might not be so obvious. For one, as an American who was accustomed to paying and tipping in cash while growing up, the concept of using digital payment platforms day-to-day was completely foreign to me until I arrived in Shanghai. So, it’s necessary to mention that in the largest and most developed cities in China, QR codes printed on checkout counters and signs indicating the acceptance of Alipay and WeChat pay at checkout are ubiquitous. Buying something at most stores in these cities is as simple as taking an item to the checkout counter and then pulling out your phone to get your WeChat or QR code scanned. It is incredibly convenient and insanely efficient. 

Now, what e-CNY aims to do is…. exactly the same thing but with a twist. First, because the infrastructure for Alipay and Wechat mobile payment processing in these Chinese cities are so mature, it hardly leaves room for any innovation in the convenience aspect of mobile payments. The payment process for e-CNY is extremely similar to that of WeChat and Alipay, except it’s just on another app. This in itself makes using the platform less convenient. However the one advantage that e-CNY has over WeChat and Alipay is its ability to conduct offline payments in a way that is similar to cash. Though as of right now, the benefits of this offline payment functionality has not resulted in the increased use of e-CNY. 

Additionally, in the e-CNY whitepaper it is mentioned that “natural persons and self-employed individuals can open individual wallets, on which classification of transaction and balance limits are placed according to the strength of customer personal information identification,” but that “legal persons and unincorporated institutions can open corporate wallets” which are implied to have less limitations. This creates an e-CNY wallet hierarchy of sorts that I believe to be an extremely large limiting factor in the future growth of e-CNY. For one, the PBOC claims that e-CNY will only serve as an M0[2] monetary aggregate[9]. What that means is that it will solely aim to replace the functionality of cash in the monetary economy. So, e-CNY does not replace the functionality of bank deposits and cannot accrue interest. However, while the whitepaper says that “e-CNY is mainly a substitute for cash in circulation (M0), and will coexist with physical RMB”, it does not acknowledge the fact that limiting the ability for individuals to send money around using e-CNY removes a fundamental advantage of cash. The limits associated with e-CNY individual wallets take away people’s freedoms to save, transfer, and pay with funds in the way that they want to. 

This limiting attribute of e-CNY wallets should not be overlooked, and I believe unless the Chinese government forces the use of e-CNY upon their citizens, or removes this limitation, I don’t think that this technology will be widely used by individuals over WeChat and Alipay. This is because, based on my research, WeChat and Alipay also set limitations on the amount of money that you can transfer per transaction and per day or year[6]. However, this transfer cap does not change based on whether you’re a “legal person” or an ordinary citizen. Therefore this is the reason why I don’t think that e-CNY will be willingly adopted by the general public. While it intends on replacing cash, it does not function like cash and may even have more transfer restrictions than Alipay and WeChat. 

Moreover, another aspect of e-CNY that should not be overlooked is its lack of anonymity. The e-CNY whitepaper mentions that “e-CNY follows the principle of “anonymity for small value and traceable for high value.” and that it “attaches great importance to protecting personal information and privacy”. I find that the use of ambiguous and nonspecific words like “small” and “high value” to clearly show that the PBOC is tracking and collecting your data while you use e-CNY, as those words do not delineate any finite amount of value. This direct data management by the central bank is a point that Western news outlets like Bloomberg and The Guardian, as well as youtubers like PolyMatter tend to focus on[10]. They claim that a major incentive for the PBOC to create e-CNY is for them to have direct access to payment data so that they can better track their citizens. While this may sound conspiratory to some, after analyzing the tangible benefits of e-CNY, it becomes clear that this could very well be the main reason for the creation of this form of currency. This is also something that ordinary people in the bigger cities in China are also aware of. Qualitatively, I have heard from those around me that they would prefer to not use e-CNY for the reason that they don’t want the government to have all their purchasing and money transfer data. For this reason, I speculate that the PBOC at some point in the future will enact a policy that severely limits the payment functionality of WeChat and Alipay. That way, users will be left with no choice but to adopt the use of e-CNY and its payment platforms.

Also, westerners that were in China during the rollout of the e-CNY pilot in August of 2021, would likely have also paid attention to the news in September that China formally banned all cryptocurrency transactions[5]. This crypto ban and the overall footprint of crypto in China actually reveals a lot about the threat that native coins on permissionless blockchains posed to e-CNY[7]. For those that don’t know, at its peak in 2019, China accounted for more than two thirds of global bitcoin mining[3]. Additionally, the largest crypto trading platform in the world, Binance[4] was created by a Jiangsu native, and was based in China until the government increasingly regulated crypto. This is significant because not only were there large financial incentives attached to mining Bitcoin in China, but there also was a spirit of innovation and belief in the cryptocurrency market noted by the rise of Binance. Plus, the very nature of distributed blockchains like the Ethereum, Bitcoin, and the Binance smart chain are that they are permissionless. Without getting too technical, it essentially means that the existence of the coin native to each respective blockchain is dependent on cooperation between untrusted third-parties and not a centralized authority. One need not even to understand the technology behind these cryptocurrencies to understand that public Chinese enthusiasm for a technology based around a decentralized mechanism is bad news for the Chinese government. As they represent the centralized authority manipulating a currency that distributed permissionless blockchain innovators around the world wish to eliminate. Therefore, it was in the Chinese Government’s best interest to kill crypto in China before it permeates the general public’s awareness. That way it sets the stage for their own form of currency to capture the public’s attention.

Now sure, e-CNY might not be anonymous, private, or even more convenient than the existing payment methods available to consumers, but at the end of the day, does that even matter? And the answer to that is… well there is no easy answer to that question. The convenience of using certain payment and money transfer platforms can be changed with government intervention; the notable example being the downfall of crypto in China. Not only that, but living in the digital age has also allowed many people to let go of their desires for privacy and anonymity. While a small minority may seek to innovate and develop new tech to protect personal information, the monetary and governmental incentives surrounding the mass accumulation and centralization of data may prove too lucrative for central authorities like the Chinese Government and the PBOC to ignore. Only time will tell what the future truly holds for the e-CNY.

##### References

1. http://www.pbc.gov.cn/en/3688110/3688172/4157443/4293696/2021071614584691871.pdf
2. https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/moneysupply.asp
3. https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-58896545
4. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binance
5. https://www.voanews.com/a/how-china-s-ban-on-cryptocurrency-will-ripple-overseas-/6254329.html
6. https://wiredcraft.com/blog/wechat-for-dummies-cross-border-online-payment/
7. https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/blockchain.asp
8. http://www.pbc.gov.cn/en/3688110/3688172/4157443/4293696/2021071614584691871.pdf
9. https://www.investopedia.com/terms/m/monetary-aggregates.asp
10. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fdqv_4IWzBo
