---
title: " Futuristic Face-changing robot: An Attempt to Combine Traditional Chinese Opera with Futuristic Sensation of Technology"
date: 2021-12-17
draft: false
author: ["Yanrui Shao, Annika Wen, Callie Qiu, Rodolfo Cossovich"]
# categories: ["research"]
# tags: ["CBDC"]
ShowToc: true
ShowReadingTime: true
ShowBreadCrumbs: true
---
## Abstract
Keywords: Robot, Chinese Face-changing Opera, Improvisation, E-waste, Futuristic

Inspired by the previous works in robotics art and scholars’ articles in the cyberpunk field, we decided to make a face-changing cyberpunk robot with a combination of modern technology and traditional culture. Using robotics as a medium, featuring traditional Chinese opera and futuristic technology, we aim to provoke the audience to reflect on the impact of the highly mechanical civilization's development on the heritage of traditional human-based performing arts. The decrepit robot with wires will be on the stage and do the face-changing performance with music beats whenever it detects people near them. Also, by applying machine learning tricks, people can interact and change the performance by waving fans. We create robots to raise people’s awareness of protecting their cultural roots and also innovate the old culture into a new form.

## Introduction
The chief purpose of this project is to experiment with something new and explore how emergent media might allow traditional arts to be expressed in new ways while raising people’s awareness of protecting cultural heritage. It is significant because we believe that using the combination of modern technology and old cultural heritage can help revitalize traditional culture. The purpose of this project is to change the “boring” traditional culture by using technology to make it more fun and more adaptable for the time that we are living in now, thus attracting a younger audience to get involved in protecting cultural heritage. To be specific, the group members of our teams see the “thorn” of people when it comes to appreciating the outdated culture. Jenkins’s book drew a sharp contrast between "passive old media" and "interactive new media," predicting the collapse of the traditional culture and media. In our case, traditional face-changing play may be boring with the out-of-date story and background music, so people may feel hard to get an immersive experience in the play. However, the updated version we developed has changed the experience by using the very media, a futuristic robot. What’s more, we believe that the process of the viewers can give input to the device themselves, and seeing the output can be engaging since they are also part of contributors to the project. So we also added props like fans, for example, to allow the audience to interfere with the performance. By doing this, we hope this experience-focused performing robot with its audio-visual performance will make the younger generation love the cultural heritage again, and also, we want to experiment with how technology can serve as a new medium for displaying traditional culture.

## LITERATURE REVIEW, PERSPECTIVES, AND CONTEXTS

### Video Inspiration:
 We are inspired by the video “变脸” on youtube, which is the original face-changing performance online. Also, we see the previous face-changing robot in the video called “robot bianlian gong xi fa cai robot dancing”. But the shortcoming of the existing robot is that it is just a toy for children, not like an inspirational tool for the whole younger generation, and it also has very limited interaction with the audience. Therefore, we plan to make the face-changing robot in the style of the MOJA all-robot band in the video “Tech and tradition in harmony as robot band performs on traditional Chinese instruments”, instead of a childish mechanical movement toy.

### Annotated Bibliography:
Jochum, Elizabeth, and Jeroen Derks’s article “Tonight We Improvise!: Real-Time Tracking for Human-Robot Improvisational Dance.” tells us how improvisational performance is essential when the robot is making decisions to do things. Therefore, we plan to apply it to our face-changing robot; we can use improvisation as a bottom-up approach for thinking about embodied interaction. To be more specific, we hope our robot can move with humans in a more spontaneous way. For our case, I hope the robot can change its face out of order and have random movement when it dances to music. As we are making robotics art, I think randomness may make the work more exciting and fun. The article was so informative that it directly points out why improvisation may be necessary, especially for robotic performance with lots of insights.

Another article, "An Augmented Reality System of Face-Changing Sichuan Opera Based on Real-Time Interaction,", written by Chinese, talks about the combination of the Face-changing Sichuan Opera and augmented reality technology, which gives us a sense of the merge between the traditional culture with modern technology. At the same time, it also inspired us to make stronger interaction features with the audience.

International cultural communication is increasingly valued by countries and can sometimes be thought of as a country’s diplomatic strategy. “Design of Chinese Opera Cultural Platform Based on Digital Twins and Research on International Cultural Communication Strategies.”, written by Ma Li, discusses the influence of a country’s culture not only depends on whether its content has unique charm but also depends on whether it has advanced means of communication and strong communication ability. This paper aims to study how to design an opera cultural platform based on digital twins. This paper proposes a three-dimensional transformation algorithm based on digital twins, which can play a good role in the design of the opera culture platform.

From the scholarly article“Participatory Arts: The stranger brings a gift” by Pia, We have gained inspiration from participatory art, which means engaging public participation in the creative process. Therefore, we have cooperated this type of art creation into our robot creation. The robot makes the audience interact using different fans. Allowing the audience to participate in the work can make them feel more engaged.

## PROJECT DESCRIPTION
To answer the question of how emergent media might allow traditional arts to be expressed in new ways, our team conducted literature reviews to prepare ourselves for the theoretical part better. We eventually decided to use the 360-degree motor with some noise to rotate the head of the robot to get the vibe of the cyberpunk and a sense of fragmentation. Wires all over the robot's body give the audience a sense of futuristic. We have also built a huge stage with a background with a blue lamp strip for the robot to perform, and the robot will automatically approach the audience if they have sensed people. The audience can also interact with the robot by using different color fans. Different fans can make various movements. The interactivity will add more fun and engage the audience when enjoying the traditional culture. Through these intentional designs of the robot, our team hopes to achieve the goal of making traditional cultural heritage expressed in a very new way.

## PROJECT SIGNIFICANCE
With the emancipation of the public mind and the development of new media information technology, new opportunities have emerged for the inheritance and development of traditional art. Influenced by new media information technology, Chinese traditional art is gradually being inherited and developed more effectively through interactive new media forms. Among them, robot art has always been a controversial medium. Media creation is also an important element in judging the value of art. We need to put the work in the cultural and contemporary context and analyze the value of the work from the influence of reality and art history to eventually escape from its logical lineage so that the work is more creative and perceptive. Robot art will become the most direct and dynamic art medium in technological art. Yet robotic art is more than just a medium for interpreting and transforming art as it is: having robots paint, write, dance, etc. In a narrow sense, current robots are more of an imitation and alienation of humans after integrating big data, like a software-driven machine with digital programming algorithms that now do not have independent creativity and desire for expression and emotional awareness.

We do not want our face-changing robot project to be just an imitation of the traditional Sichuan opera art of face-changing. Sichuan opera face-changing is a human performance art based on master performers, and its appeal lies in the complex face-changing techniques that require long-term training to master. Even the use of high-speed cameras in Japan cannot reveal the substantial connotations and secrets of face-changing, which are able to satisfy the prying eyes and curiosity of the public. If we were to create a human-shaped robot that mechanically imitates face-changing movements with a few motors, it would certainly not give the audience the astonishment and fascination they feel when watching a real-life master perform. Therefore, the original concept of our robot art project is critical and metaphorical. The main purpose of the project is to provoke the audience to think about the heritage of traditional Chinese face-changing art and the role that robots can play in it. The difficulty in the inheritance of the Sichuan opera face-changing art is that with the continuous development and changes of the modern era, the more homogeneous and mechanical performance style no longer meets people's aesthetic needs. In addition, the history of face-changing performances is relatively long, with the heritage of Chinese opera culture as the theme. Still, the substance of the face-changing techniques is very complex. The more straightforward art performance form can only be called acrobatics, which cannot better reflect the essential connotation and charming essence of Sichuan opera face-changing art. Therefore, we are not using robot performances to push the proliferation and repetition of face-changing performances but to explore innovative and unique forms of expression critically.

As face-changing is a niche art form itself, the theme of the project is even more niche and challenging. We focus on the robot performance and installation to express the reality of the face-changing artist's personal feelings of survival, the foresight of the future, and a new interpretation of history. Of course, the core of machine intelligence is also digital-driven, and the final presentation is more anthropomorphic, direct, and physical than the intelligent art realized by computer data. And this anthropomorphic technology should not be used only to imitate humans on and off the artist's soul. By exposing the rough shape manufacturing and stage scene construction, we give the robot a very conflicting style with the traditional Sichuan opera art. As for the movement, its mechanism is the same as the Sichuan opera face-changing itself, where the face changes mechanically in a fixed way, and the movement of the feet is random. Borrowing from the symbolic and linguistic way of machine creatures, we want to express the cognition and preconception of the future and make the audience think about how robot art has humanistic emotion and the temperature of technology. The viability of the transmission and development of traditional art under new media information technology remains dependent on human beings. Robots cannot replace humans in the role of transmitting human performing arts, but they can help us explore new forms of performance. In this project, the face-changing art, which is mechanical in form but profound in content, and the robot, which is mechanized in its external behavior and embodies the artist's expression, collide uniquely.

## Methodology

### a. Hardware and Code

#### Coding
Our team used micro bit as a coding tool to make our project. (click on the link to see the complete code). Our code enables all the hardware parts like 360-degree motors, ultrasonic

 sensors, IR sensors, MP3 player, and webcam together, meanwhile, helping us connect with the Teachable Machine on Glitch.
We have adjusted our coding architecture several times for optimal outcomes. By using our very current version, we put all the things that should be included in a very big loop, and to reduce the side effect of running so often, we have put all the stuff into for every 200 milliseconds, hoping to make the whole process smoother. We have also set a variable “count” to control the function performance, making the time for the robot’s performance more accurately. It also connects the performance with the fan activities executed by the Teachable Machine, so it makes the whole code more coherent with each others.
Fig.1

#### Motor choice
We use the 360-degree servo to rotate the face of the robot. It makes it easier for the robot to rotate 90 degrees each time. However, the drawback of using this motor is it is hard to manage the rotating degree, and it requires a lot of trying and adjustment.
 
#### Sensor choice
Fig.2 Fig.3
We conducted several experiments to see if the ultrasonic sensor was stable and to adjust the value of the distance. We use the ultrasonic sensor to detect if there are people nearby and make it approach people, and when people leave, the robot will step back again. At the same time, we also use an IR sensor to make sure it will not fall from the stage. We have designed a black edge on the stage, so whenever it detects a black edge, it will also be back to the center of the stage again.

#### Teachable machine
We use a Microbit AI training site as a bridge to help build a gap between the teachable machine and the micro bit. We have trained the AI to make a prediction using a library of data we give in different cases and then code the micro bit to use those predictions to make our robot move in different ways. More specifically, when the audience puts the red fans near the webcam, it will first move backward and turn right, and if the audience puts the white fans near, it will move forward and then turn left.

#### MP3 player and webcam
We have also connected the mp3 audio player to the robot to make traditional music when the performance starts. We have also borrowed a webcam connecting it directly to the robot.

### FABRICATION AND DESIGN
We are very ambitious when it comes to fabrcation. The original plan was to have the body made mainly of e-waste, embellished with traditional Chinese patterned fabric and metallic opera-style decoration. The face will be partially painted with glow-in-the-dark paint. We also planned to build a stage for the robot, with a background of a chassis decorated with blue light tape wraps to match the cyberpunk art style. However, the student in charge of manufacturing was infected with COVID-19 to be isolated, so only part of the fabrication plan was completed.

The head is the core of the face-changing robot interaction. As shown in the sketch in Fig.4, we carried out three designs. The first one is similar to the Chinese four-faced Guanyin figure, meaning that all four sides of the face are uncovered, and therefore there is no distinction between front and back. The advantage of this design is that it is easy to install, while the disadvantage is that it is detached from the concept of Sichuan opera face changing. The second one conforms to the traditional appearance of face-changing and requires the production of a magnificent crown as well as a head with four different faces. The servo motor will rotate the tetrahedron to change the face. The third one is an upgrade based on the second one. We want to leave a blank face for projecting the face changing animation by the projector. In this way the interaction is not limited to four faces, allowing more variations and truly realizing the combination of traditional face changing performance and future technology. However, since our robot is in movement, the projector needs to position the robot, and the projection surface is not flat, we have to consider the picture deformation. All these factors made the implementation too difficult, so we eventually gave up incorporating animation and chose the basic second design.
  Fig.4 Fig.5

Traditional Chinese opera headdress has a lot of details and is mostly crafted by artisans. We bought a lot of materials and experienced the feeling of bonding them by hand. First, as shown in Fig.5, the basic structure of the headpiece was formed by bending wires. Since we chose the special art style of e-waste, we decided to make the back of it look damaged and rough, so we used discarded wires to wrap and fix it. Next, we covered it with some clay to facilitate the attachment of the decorations. The process of gluing the pieces together was tedious, but the result was satisfying. Regarding the choice of materials for the head, we again used ultralight clay, because it is lightweight enough to be driven by one servo motor and easy to colored.
  Fig.6 Fig.7

In the construction of the stage, we took reference from the art style of Anti-General's video “Cyberpunk 山海经” and wanted to build a stage with a futuristic sense as large as possible. But considering the portable display and the fact that it will eventually be dismantled, we wanted to use lightweight material. Therefore, for the foundation, we chose high-density foam board instead of wood. As shown in Fig.8, the high-density foam board can be easily cut with an electric cutting pen to create the octagonal shape we wanted. And the high-density foam board is very lightweight while still being able to withstand the robot's movement on the flat surface. We wrapped black tape around it to make the robot easily detect the edge of the stage without falling down. In the choice of material for the stage pillars, iron rods fit the artistic style well, but were too heavy and bulky. So we used lightweight wooden sticks, but painted them silver to match the overall style.
Fig.8 Fig.9

As shown in Fig.9, we found a discarded computer chassis for the backdrop and wrapped thin blue light strips in it as cyberpunk decorations. We had originally envisioned using more light strips for the top of the stage, and even for the traditional opera costume "bunting" - triangular colored flags fixed to the back of the shoulders. Additional traditional Chinese style metal decorations were purchased to embellish the stage and body parts of the robot. However, due to time and COVID-19 constraints, we failed to realize them. Although there were many regrets in the production process, we met the minimum expectations and completed the project under difficult circumstances. The final art style of the appearance presented is a combination of traditional and futuristic sense, and the improvisation and interaction with the audience is simple but clear. After detecting the approach of the audience to the stage, the robot will start to move and change its face, while the speakers will play music. The IR sensor ensures that the robot will not fall off the stage. The audience can pick up different colored fans and wave them to interact with the robot's performance. This is a continuation of the daring and romantic imagination that filled the ancient Chinese face-changing technique, and although it is not perfect, it is an attempt to combine traditional art with robot art as a means of inheritance.

## FURTHER DISCUSSION
In the future, we aim to enhance the user experience by adding more interaction and making the sound and performance fit with each other. As elaborated in Part V, the parts that we did not meet our expectation are: first, the artistic style of the stage and robot body production could be more refined, and there are many unused materials; second, different fans could correspond to different styles of interactions, such as joy, anger and sorrow; third, the robot's movement of changing faces should match the beat of music and turn at the right time; fourth, the combination of projector and animation design is difficult to achieve but exciting and worth trying. Thus, future iterations of our project may be to make a more significant difference when people interact with the robot with different fans. Instead of just the movement difference, we can change the face-changing order and background music. Meanwhile, the next step can also be to make the movement fit the beats of the music because now the music and the performance are still a little separated. Potentially, this project could be made into a much larger improvisation installation. The combination of traditional Chinese performing arts with a cyberpunk visual aesthetic style has never been explored before. There is still great possibilities in this field, as the relationship between the development of highly mechanical civilization and the heritage of traditional art is always a question that human beings need to think about.

## REFERENCE
1. Ai Training. ai-training.glitch.me.
2. Anti-General. “Cyberpunk 山海经.” YouTube, 27 Jan. 2020, www.youtube.com/watch?v=AMzM1esmriA.
3. “Final Project.” Microsoft MakeCode, makecode.microbit.org/82372-13007-80073-56854. Hidekawa0627. “チャリティー 中国雑技黒龍舞術団 変面.” YouTube, 11 Aug. 2013,
www.youtube.com/watch?v=qPBkegjjPSQ.
4. Jenkins, Henry, and Adolfo Plasencia. “Convergence Culture: Where Old and New Media Collide.” Is The Universe a Hologram?, The MIT Press, May 2017, https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/9780262036016.003.0012.
5. Jochum, Elizabeth, and Jeroen Derks. “Tonight We Improvise!” Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Movement and Computing, ACM, Oct. 2019, https://doi.org/10.1145/3347122.3347129.
6. Ma, Li. “Design of Chinese Opera Cultural Platform Based on Digital Twins and Research on International Cultural Communication Strategies.” Mobile Information Systems, edited by Amit Gupta, vol. 2022, Hindawi Limited, Aug. 2022, pp. 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/6996377.
7. Moriarty, Pia. Participatory Arts: The Stranger Brings a Gift. San Francisco Foundation. 
8. Mourist Toys. “Robot Bianlian Gong Xi Fa Cai Robot Dancing Face Changing.” YouTube, 31 Jan. 2022, www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-s4NYYZD04.
9. South China Morning Post. “Tech and Tradition in Harmony as Robot Band Performs on Traditional Chinese Instruments.” YouTube, 6 May 2021,
www.youtube.com/watch?v=WAgphvBOrKI.
10. Tan, Shuqiu, et al. “An Augmented Reality System of Face-Changing Sichuan Opera Based on
Real-Time Interaction.” 2016 International Conference on Virtual Reality and Visualization (ICVRV), IEEE, Sept. 2016, https://doi.org/10.1109/icvrv.2016.76.


